okay I think we're all set with
reporting if you wanna get started
alright welcome to the ipfs community
working group call alright um so we'll
start with just a quick check in with
everybody here I'll start out back this
week which is nice after taking a week
off jump back into a bunch of different
stuff the big one is some metrics work
that is really actually interesting I
think the whole community working groups
so all um I'll give some more details on
that and actually go through some of the
day that we've collected later after the
state's finish Terry you wanna go next
sure so my big thing this week has been
launching proto school so I before that
way now I did some pair programming with
Ollie which was great to get the mobile
nav working and made a couple of
last-minute tweaks to get things as good
as we could before that Monday I gave
the presentation on our ipfs weekly call
and we had time for a little bit of Q&A
there so in the notes in the notes from
this call I've included the links to a
condensed video that Zac helps me make
that's kind of just my presentation plus
a piece that I missed and popped in at
the end I'll put together that's already
had 193 views on YouTube which is
awesome
there's also a link there to the slide
deck from that call feel free to share
that presentation with anyone and then
there's also a link to the full
recording of the weekly call that has
the Q&A plus some tangents that are
unrelated and we've had a lot of
requests for chapter set up since that
Monday call we've had requests from Hong
Kong Mumbai Phoenix Beijing Berlin
Seattle and DC and those Beijing and
Phoenix are two requests each from
different people so working through
trying to help people get set up with
that and then I'm
also adding licenses to the various
proto school repos which I had missed
earlier so that's been added to the main
one and now I need to go back and do it
on organizing in the various chapter
repos and then I'm just now kind of
working on getting a little slightly
more template e version of what I give
people when they get a chapter at the
beginning when we set up the repo just
so it has a little bit more structure
has the license built-in that kind of
thing and then upcoming for me includes
I need to figure out how to locate and
invite ipfs meetup organizers to see if
they'd like to lead chapters I think
some of the people who have reached out
already are those folks some not and
then I need to do some exploration
myself kind of find the resources that
exist right now to teach myself the ipfs
file API in preparation for building out
a new proto school tutorial that covers
that so that's probably what's next on
my docket hey um I've been working on
the communities think I have pare
programmed with Andre in working with
the Google API and also like building a
command-line interface for putting in a
PR I was able to actually get our notes
from the different meetings and turn
into markdown but still work in progress
or work in progress which is closer to
being finished is actually making a
feature where you can announce your
meetings during as a github issue so I
worked with Michaels that still needs
some more work but it's definitely
coming along so oh and I also put in a
proposal for waffle Jas to speak about
like ipfs and how people can get started
to contributing to ipfs so I hope that
talk is
accept it next on the list is to
continue the community sync tool and I'm
not sure if I have other stuff I'll talk
to Michael about in terms in terms of
five coin so that's me
cool then do you have any updates do you
wanna share are just fun to observe
today sure so I think one thing that I
posted an issue about I really like to
see many we do have some chapters being
on board is potentially a participle
dedicated chatroom somewhere I know that
my PFS
and protocol labs in general has a set
of riot channel's matrix channels and
I'm wondering maybe we should have our
own yeah that's that's a I have a tab
open to reply to that yeah yeah I'll be
kill it in in the issue for kind of
everyone's benefit who's not like
watching the call but yeah I mean we
should consider it but there's there's
also a lot to kind of take away from
what node school did which was they kind
of forced everything people into github
when they had issues which then
connected them with this sort of support
structure and open source that they
could you know have for the rest of
their programming including like when
they sort of left just just a learning
phase which I always found kind of
interesting but yeah there there might
be some differences so we can talk about
it Jim not a whole lot of my and I did
work through all the modules on protocol
and tried to vote myself so I passed a
request that changed yes I did see to a
word that was missing a see it was very
helpful thank you so much awesome
awesome
okay Evan just join us Kevin am I
remembering oh you got you're one of our
new chapter organized
you might be mu if you're talking to us
Kevin right oh no that's okay welcome
Kevin cool so we did some okay our
update so I just like to like yeah let's
um let's check in on just like the okay
our status real quick I'll share my
screen real fast
just so that everybody can see
well we updated with priorities and now
we have these nice that is everywhere
from Mali
Thank You Ollie and I just want to check
in so Terry why don't you tell us sort
of where we're at in terms of getting
protocol out into its own topical
project in the future well as as you see
the way the okay ours are structured
here each of these key results on the
left is a link so there is a link to
roadmap planning but that has not
officially started yet um so we're not
we read about a zero out of whatever
scale goes up to on completion of that
one in terms of metrics that one has not
been started but we have sort of the
plan in place is to use Google event
tracking for that and I want to also
make sure that the sort of standard
Google Analytics is working with you to
give us everything we need so Michael
suggested a package manager that I can
look out for that one and then the file
so yeah Michael you completed I think
the segment of this you know making this
I capable of doing the file uploads and
the next piece and that is me working on
the the lesson itself chrome
portion of questions with ipfs already
event Michael and I will pair program on
that so for now that's add as you know
but I'm not sure if we're gonna start on
that soon
um yeah we'll probably push it mean it's
a p2 so we'll probably do it a little
bit later in the corner just because we
hit we have a bunch of other stuff I
think to knock your first okay and then
there's the community working group text
on me of resources Stack Overflow Doc's
micro sites that people can find when
developing on ipfs haven't started on
that yet but I think that's something
that will also occur like later in this
quarter also sit them back up there's
the the first contributor guidelines are
separated from the regular contribution
policy that stuff as well oh okay on the
first time contributors are greet by
inviting automated message um haven't
started on that yet but I am starting on
like the automation in general I don't
think that should be too taxing but that
will probably become before some of the
other goals okay cool looking good
looking good okay um so while I'm still
doing my screen share why don't I pull
up some of the data that I pulled so um
I have a repository at github slash
protocol slash no wait no okay I'll find
it in a second
nope it's not on protocol some protocol
labs so for ipfs we're collecting a
bunch of metrics from our github or
givenchy
but the tool itself can actually pull
data out of any github org so it like
all of the other top-level projects that
have their own Oracle be able to use the
same tool as well as anybody in the
community that's why it's open source so
um right now using the github migrations
API this is able to pull out tarballs
for all of the metadata about all the
activities that's ever happened in the
entire org and then we can generate some
metrics ESDS and so i've taken those
CFPs and created some nice charts here
in Google sheets I'll share this link
with everybody so
you can pull it up it's already live
where did the chat go I don't know how
to do the chat here I will put it in
this Google Doc and there we go pull up
the Google Talk that's already in the
yeah yeah apparently when you're sharing
you don't have actually but at easily
okay so anyway so we have some some
graphs here that just show some basic
data like this is the number of unique
users that we've seen in the org over
time and that's that's unique users
every quarter actually the reason to
break it down by quarter is that their
various so in open source generally like
if you're looking at sort of like that
the top level data there are these huge
variants as an activity between weekdays
and weekends and when on average you're
only having like maybe a two to five
percent change in activity every month
if you have more or less weekends in a
month it greatly impacts the head and so
it's not actually a change in the
activity of the project it's just like a
variance and how many like how many
weekdays versus weekend
if you break things down by quarter it
normalizes a lot of that and what you
end up having is like you have a fairly
light q4 usually because a lot of people
kind of take off in December and you
usually have a really strong q1 because
everybody comes back in January into
anywhere in February so with the biggest
months in sort of all can have activity
generally anyway so yeah so we we have
sort of total unique users this is the
total number of actions just activity
broken down by type across the entire
org so you can see that you know our
issues you know grew and grew and then
declined a ton and then came back in the
org but issue comments are relatively
flat which is like an interesting thing
what's happened and you can see the like
pull requests have actually gone up like
tremendously and the you know just since
2017 so that's really cool to see yeah
there's also the the same kind of data
but this is the number of unique users
that engage it in an action so rather
than the activity just the number of
people that we find engaging and you can
see that while it's kind of flat we saw
a big
priests coming into 2018 for issues and
for a bunch of other stuff and then the
the issue stuff really kind of leveled
off in terms of unique new people coming
but the the overall sort of activity for
pull requests and stuff like that
actually came up quite a bit during that
time and then yeah you always use a
little slump into q4 that's totally
normal not anything we're not then these
numbers are really noisy and there's a
thread about sort of fixing this but
like this is the growth percentage for
each of these both in total actions and
in unique people so looking at the
growth that as a percentage growth rate
quarter-over-quarter it's an interesting
way to look at this but I have an issue
here that I would love people feedback
on it's issue one in this repository
I'll post a link to it in the notes but
basically there are lots of other
questions that we can ask this data we
have literally all of the activity data
for the entire org so what I really want
to know from from everybody here and and
really in the whole project is like what
are new questions that we want to ask
this data what are new insights that
we'd like to have into the project in
terms of how we're doing and what kinds
of metrics were collecting so please
comments in this and yeah I will put
this in the notes right now cool and
yeah that's about any sort of questions
just like about this data generally yeah
Jim well first thing when I'm seeing
these graphs it pops in my mind is I
would like to see like if you could sort
of you know do PL contributors versus
other identifiable groups and see like
is it real organic because I mean like
we're being paid to work on this so
obviously if there's 400 contributors in
the head in is growing a hundred people
and we've hired a hundred people in the
past year that explains most of the that
we we have not hired a hundred engineers
across all projects less ipfs so we were
definitely some new people I think that
like though when you look at poor
request right you
make users buy pull request we see like
an increase of about like in 2018 from
the beginning of the year to the end is
something like you know that looks like
about 60 or 70 like that that's quite a
bit like we did not bring we did not
hire that many people that work on ipfs
yeah I don't even we didn't even hire 70
new people at TL I totally agree that I
would like to separate out the peel
people from this it's just a lot harder
than you would think like very few
people at PL actually put protocol ABS
like in their github profile information
so if it were there I would be able to
pull them put them out pretty easily but
also we hire people from the community
sometimes and sometimes people like we
actually expect that occasionally people
will leave PL and then work somewhere
else where they still contribute and so
like how do you separate that activity
because it's actually like during one
time period they were working for PL
during another they actually work so if
we if you really want to drill into it
it's actually kind of difficult I think
that what would be probably easier is to
quantify the number of unique people
that we've put on a project and just at
different time periods and then subtract
that from from the total no I think
something that everybody that we hired
did something related to their job in
that quarter yeah you can do it I like
more more sophisticated
you know sort people into buckets is
then you have a state machine which
links you know people transition from
this to the you know they start right
these are these are community
contributors then you can like begin
sort of like
all the github user names into
particular buckets but then realize that
people change buckets over time so then
they get sort of complicated but then
you consider like monitor little flows
between the difference but is it much
more complicated modeling tasks it is
but but also like I think um I I want us
to ask a few more questions of the data
because we may move away from this
particular data set like this may not be
as interesting to us as say like one
thing that I'm not doing yet is um just
cataloging the number of brand new
people each quarter so like we've met
first seeing them engaged in this kind
of activity or we've never seen them
period until this point in time because
right now it's just unique for a quarter
it doesn't really tell us if they're
they're new to the project like
absolutely and once we start tracking
that data that may actually be more
interesting and it's very easy to
quantify how many people that we add in
a recorder like we we know that pretty
pretty easily so that would be very
simple and then you only need to knock
it off of that quarter because once you
see them once they're never counted
again yeah growth analysis is always
about the turn to it's like how many
people are leaving so you had a
contributor for two years and then they
disappeared and then how many people are
doing that yeah yeah there's another
thing that I'd like there's other data
that isn't useful for it doesn't really
graph well but it's useful to understand
which is like for people that send a
pull request what other activities do
they engage in and on what timeline
right so before we see an initial pull
request we see just issue comments and
we do we see them first like do people
show up a year before they send a pull
request or do they literally show up
like you know on average month before so
the information like that is really
interesting to look at as well but yeah
it's just not something that we would
put on the graph it's just like a single
number that would be an interesting and
I would also say like if you start
getting into that level detail like the
numbers aren't that large but I did
you'd pair some quantitative analysis
with some qualitative analysis like
actually right pick some people out of
at random and then actually go out and
look at what they did but then also just
like maybe contact them in person and
interview them yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
I mean yeah so we when I started looking
at the meetups that have been happening
around the world
I literally just reached out to every
meet up over in a circus tent weren't
that many and sort of talk to them about
like hey like what are you struggling
with like you know is it going normally
and one of the reasons why we sort of
focused on photo school was like a lot
of them felt like there weren't enough
people that knew ipfs and they didn't
really have like a lot of great
materials to teach them so that's kind
of where proto school
a little bit okay cool
if we can turn these into sort of
succinct questions into that issue that
would be awesome
because I would definitely like to get
these you didn't and and by the way
we're already pulling out some data in
like a metric JSON but it's literally
just single numbers they're not CSV use
that are a setter meant to be a turn
into line graphs like this so we can
literally ask any question any other
questions formula I might have one and
so we're talking about trying to bring
people on board with these tutorials and
I think it'd be really interesting to
see where we're having people having the
most issues obviously like so tracking
which tutorials might be hardest but
also is there a turnover so at some
point do people start going from just
like having issues to may be
contributing so is there a particular
set of tutorials that actually on board
people to working on something more than
just continuing the tutorial set so the
first part of your question will be
addressed when I add event tracking so
hopefully we'll be able to track things
like whether you submitted the correct
answer those kinds of things to help us
figure out which lessons are the hardest
I think I could easily identify right
now which lesson will have the most
incorrect answers but the second piece
in terms of figuring out what people do
afterwards I know less about Google
Analytics probably than Michael does so
there is an issue open right now which
Michael opened after some Twitter
discussion that we could potentially add
sort of a next steps screen that appears
at the end of each of our lessons that
could have some links out to different
things like other resources for learning
that concept or places you could apply
it or places you can contribute to so
that's going to be both
you know both there's the project in
there of how do we physically set that
up like creating the template for that
but also
than recruiting like what are the
projects we want people to work on so
there's gonna be some work in alignment
there and I'm not sure like I think we
would be able to track what was clicked
on in that list whether we can track all
the way through from they clicked there
too they actually contributed to a
project I presume as much more
challenging what's your reaction Michael
yeah so um we we should be able either
already or very shortly in Google
Analytics to figure out where people
fall off you know like if they start out
and then they don't finish a lesson or
they do finished with them it was hard
like those kinds of questions we should
be able to answer you know in really
self-contained way we don't have a way
right now to connect a user profile in
Google Analytics though to like a github
profile we we've talked about how so
right now the way that we save like your
lessons state and all of that stuff is
just in local storage so if you pull up
a new browser it just like won't be
there and that's not always ideal for
everybody so when we have like we need
we want to add some features that would
require some kind of login for
persistence this is a really good
argument to make that log in be login
with github because then we would be
able to associate that Google Analytics
profile with that particular github user
and and then we would be able to see
like okay um you know here like beginner
profiles that completed particular
tutorials we would be able to look at
you know do they have new repositories
that depend on ITSs you know are they
engaged in the fbms project in other
places like we'd actually be able to
connect those dots at that point but
that that's you know at least another
quarter out probably we don't plan on
adding that feature until the second
quarter
yeah does that answer your question did
I think so yeah that'd be really cool to
see I don't know if that even something
we could throw in like an issue for
later and like what okay ours
potentially to think about yeah yeah we
we should create an issue so we have an
issue right now tracking the additional
metrics just in Google Analytics so so
that the first part stuff that was just
containing Google Analytics that I think
has already captured there which is
great and we are working on that
the
the second part where we want to
associated github profile and we want to
add some features that would persist
over time based on your sort of your
you're logged in account I don't know if
we have an issue for that yet we have an
issue for that Terry
we know that we talked about it like you
know back in q4 that like maybe nice no
I mean the last continue rate is the one
that knows what you've done right right
okay so let's um let's let's add an
issue for that feature and then just
note in the feature that like we also
want to set a flag once they log in that
connects their analytics user session to
their github profile and then that would
connect the dots once that's there we
can we can pull out all the rest of data
cool any other questions before you
watch this would be optional Michael
yeah yeah yeah it would be optional um
we would can we would continue on with
the local storage stuff if they if they
weren't doing this syncing yeah okay or
or potentially we would actually you
know pull in something like maybe
actually pouch DB or some other sort of
like on top of local storage ride EB
solution that stinks well between
different browsers and we would plug
that in or potentially we could just
store all the state data in EFS if we
can properly connect their account back
but then it like we'd have to encrypt it
okay okay all right I'm gonna stop
sharing and yeah so I think our last
little chunk here is for some any
additional items or QA or whatnot we
have just one little pitch I put
together a very light chapter template
that kind of mimics the design of the
main web page and so I think I threw an
issue so it's a separate repo
to throw that repo into our org for
people to look at if that's something of
value otherwise I can just use it for
Denver let me I saw that I saw you post
that Dan I'm sorry and then I lost track
of the thread so I haven't looked at the
at your template yet but I'd like I I
think it's a great idea to have that as
an option for people like what I
envision that going back to what Michael
said earlier about the reason we were
envisioning using github as the place
for a discussion is that we could have
sort of a like we could have organized
of sharing with each other templates and
things like that and some of them we
might want to host within within the
organizing site or it could just be
people saying hey go look at how I did
this thing for Mumbai I think it's
really cool you can copy it if you want
to or they could be some things that are
more formatted with fill in the blanks
instead of already having Denver filled
in what were you about to say Michael I
was just saying like um so our
onboarding for new chapters is starting
to include like quite a few kind of
manual steps and so at some point we're
going to want to probably automate that
and you know if we have this like great
template for getting the site up that
could be like a checkbox when they ask
for a new chapter like hey yeah you know
like add this template and then the
automation would would pull that as well
well that's I think that's different
than that other things that we're doing
though like the things that we
definitely need our stuff like there's a
license they have a code of have a code
of conduct which right now we're letting
people craft their own kind of code of
conduct and giving them some suggestions
as to resources they could use like you
must there are things that I am ensuring
are done before I allow the site to be
listed on our chapter listings on our
website and having a websites like
having a github page of site is not one
of them and I do not expect that every
chapter will want to do that so I think
there are places where they'll want to
just use an IP of us meetup or whatever
so we have not made having a github
pages website at requirement and
therefore I envisioned a website
template which is I think what Dan is
has created as a thing that's essential
I would envision it as a lake hey if you
want to build a website
here's how you can get it out it's the
website here's the template you can use
if you're interested so maybe at a
higher level actually it would be good
to have a repo that you could fork
it's just a templated chapter yeah so
that that could work one thing so this
goes back to when I when I started the
it was actually the IOT is
internationalization community like
localization community but now it's the
node.js localization community but
basically um it was this sort of all
call like hey like it you know if you
want to set out the localization
community for particular language tell
me and we'll get it set up and so very
similar to note school like you know
they get a repose they get added to it
one of the things that that I noticed
was that like their engagement with the
repo like they didn't feel like they had
the right to really like administrate it
even though they were added as admins to
it until you sort of gave them a task to
do themselves that required admin so
what I started doing was like every time
that I would set up a repo I would I had
an issue template and that would be the
first issue and it was just a bunch of
things that they could go do like you
know how to read me to it it had these
things so if we have some documentation
for like hey here's that here's a
template for a website here's how here's
some documentation on how to get two
pages works if you want to build
something else you could also just link
to your meetup like if we just document
that and put it in an issue and then add
it it would give all new organizers like
some steps to take on themselves and
then actually feel like they own the
repo a little before yeah totally yeah
there's it's like it's hard to make
people actually feel unable to like make
decisions into things even after you
give them access this could be like one
of those nice things and it's not
something like like the license that
we're like actually kind of worried
about a little bit like in the code of
conduct where it's like you really need
to have these like let's just add them
when we on board them yeah yeah so I
mean what if you want to take a look
Michael at the Seattle and DC chapters
which I haven't even
holds those organizers that they're
there yet those ones are me just today
putting in putting in a fully complete
license and a placeholder code of
conduct and some placeholder text
in the body of the repo that includes
some like to do actually write something
here write something here so take a look
at that and see if you think there are
any of those that would make more sense
as issues because I do kind of like the
idea of like oh I should be using the
issue queue so we could put some of
those things there or leave it I don't
know whatever is easiest for people to
get going risk yeah another thing too is
that um in the issue template that we
have for them requesting a new chapter
we should probably add in that try to
capture the code of conduct contact so
that by the time that we add the repo we
can just create the code of conduct and
put in the contact that they that they
gave us when they applied for the
chapter if that makes it so do you want
every chapter using identical codes of
conduct because that's not what we've
said now we've said an option is to use
the contributor code of conduct I think
that we should so this that's EOC and
the link to it exists in their repo that
they have admin to so they can modify it
and move to a different one if they if
they choose but I think that we should
start them out with one along with my
contact and the reason I like the the
ones that we've done with the Casa code
of conduct for in person and the
contributor covenant for code they have
a lot of translations as well so one
thing that a lot of these places may do
is actually just like pull out the link
that we have to be to the default page
and put like the specific link to their
localization like yeah I can see where a
lot of these proto schools might be like
part of another event like an IP FS
meetup so they want to keep the same
code of conduct I didn't have two
separate ones
yeah that's happened already actually so
the porno chapter is organized by the
Opio Network folks who happen to be I
think the Moxie folks who we know so
they are linking to their Opio code of
conduct as the code of conduct for their
chapter so in their case they would have
had to like delete out the file that we
had etc if we did that but for some
people it might have been easier I don't
know Kevin what you would have preferred
feel free to I know your
it's not working but you can chat if you
have an a preference on this concept
Kevin just set up our hunt
I think it's Hong Kong right is it Hong
Kong that you did Kevin yes yeah yeah
yeah yeah I mean just having them
deleted is fine like I think that you
know starting out with something to set
the expectation that way you need to
have something as good and then yeah if
they pull it out for theirs because like
we like especially like the opioid
network the Opio network thing is a
really good example where they don't
want to maintain like the points of
contact changes in like multiple
different locations like you can bring
on a new organizer and they're tackling
this now they just want to update it at
one place and so it's much better okay
so we're a little bit over time but uh
any anything else that anybody that's
real quick
okay sweet all right thank you all for
coming see you next week this has been
the community working group call awesome
everybody